hi we constructing concentric rings of
numbers where we're given a number as
argument and that goes in the middle and
then we keep decreasing the numbers as
rings around it until we reach
one
and we can do this um by generating
first the sequence that we want want
going from the
um outside to the inside so let's say
the argument is
five and then we want a ring in the
middle well that's which is just a
single number which is five and then
ring around that for four and then three
around that two around that one around
that so it's going to be um large like
this okay let's um start working on this
as a uh tested function that takes us
argument uh the this sequence that we
generating because we want the sequence
itself and we also want it then in
Reverse to uh decrease once we pass the
center so we can reverse it and we can
get its um
identity and we can concatenate these
together
oops but now we get a duplicated middle
element which we don't want so we can
drop the first one of the Reversed
argument the Reversed sequence and that
gives us the middle row or middle column
in the final Matrix that we
want so all we now need to do is expand
this to become a matrix where we um sort
of say uh rotate around the
middle and one way we can do this is and
as if we were making a multiplication
table so for a moment let's try make a
multiplication table that's J J jut do
times uh selfie or commute so this is an
outer product and then we are using uh
the commute to take this argument over
here on both sides and this gives us a
multiplication
table so we can see that five can 25 in
the middle and then this is 4 * 5 is 20
over here all the way up to 1 * 2 and uh
2 * 1 and then one over here of course
we don't actually need a multiplication
table what we want is that uh the lowest
value from the rows or the columns
should Prevail so over here we want it
to be a one and over here we also want
the one and here we want the two and so
on then five in the middle so we want
the minimum function so the minimum
function is written like this it's like
uh a vertical bar with an indicator line
that shows the minimum uh
value
and then that gives us exactly the
result we want now this is an expression
but we can easily convert this to a
function f and then we can apply F and
that solves our problem thank you for
watching